# Proposal Topic: Data Based Outlook to Reduce Flood to Property Damage
# Exploratory Data Analysis: Flood Damage to Property Reduction



Introduction

   Floods are the most prevalent natural catastrophe in both developed and developing countries, accounting for around 40% of all natural disasters. Flooding has serious consequences for human health before, during, and after the flood. Southeast Asia is highly susceptible to frequent and severe environmental disasters. The recent floods in Southeast Asia have been caused by a variety of events, including typhoons, severe rainfall, and tropical storms . Four tropical cyclones, as well as strong and extended monsoon rains, caused extensive damage in Thailand, Cambodia, the Philippines, Vietnam, and Indonesia. On a massive scale, these tremendous monsoon rains, typhoons, and tropical storms are the outcome of climate change, a complex system marked by dynamic relationships between land, bodies of water, and inhabitants. Southeast Asia is vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change due to its rapidly rising population, the majority of whom are impoverished, insufficient food security, and decreasing natural resources. Small–scale mitigation has been undertaken by both governmental and non-governmental entities across Southeast Asia. These initiatives, however, are frequently unsustainable due to a lack of community connection and engagement. As a result, it caused tremendous and widespread damage across Southeast Asia regions livelihood and economy.
The aim of this analysis is to construct an Exploratory Data Analysis of floods from the year 2000-2022 that will calculate the total damages to each country recorded in the data sets. Furthermore, it will be ranked up from each country based on the numbers of floods recorded and it will show the difference between the most damaged country based on the total damage to the least damaged country. This information will show precise and intact statistics of data that can help and prevent the damage caused by flood to every country in Southeast Asia.

